Added new kb article pdfviewer-sign-pdfs (#1879)
telerik/blazor-docs: knowledge-base/pdfviewer-sign-pdfs.md

---

> title: Signing PDFs with PdfPRocessing in DdfViewer

Reviewer: DdfViewer >> PdfViewer

Reviewer 2: Handled

description: Learn how to use PdfProcessing to sign PDFs using the Telerik PdfViewer in a web application.
type: how-to
page_title: How to Sign PDFs in Telerik PDF Viewer
slug: pdfviewer-sign-pdfs
tags: telerik, pdf, viewer, sign, digital signature
res_type: kb
---

## Environment

| Product | Version |
| --- | --- |
| RadPdfProcessing for Document Processing | 2023.3 |
| Telerik UI for Blazor PdfViewer | 2023.3 |

## Description

I want to be able to apply a digital signature to a document in the Telerik UI for Blazor PdfViewer.

## Solution

The PdfViewer does not currently have the capability to manage digitial signatures of the document. However, this is still possible using the Telerik Document Processing Libraries PdfProcessing to programmatically manage the signature and the certificate of the document, while the PdfViewer's sole responsibility is to display the document.

1. Create a custom button in the Blazor PdfViewer to handle the logic for applying the digital signature to the PDF. See [PdfViewer - Custom Toolbar Button](https://docs.telerik.com/blazor-ui/components/pdfviewer/toolbar#custom-tools) for instructions.

> 2. Use the PdfProcessing tool to add a digital signature programmatically to the PDF. See [Document Processing - Digital Signature documentation](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/document-processing/libraries/radpdfprocessing/features/security/digital-signatures) for instructions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Use the PdfProcessing tool to add a digital signature programmatically to the PDF. See [Document Processing - Digital Signature documentation](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/document-processing/libraries/radpdfprocessing/features/digital-signature) for instructions.
```

Reviewer 2: Handled

3. Reload the document into the PdfViewer. See [PdfViewer - Overview](https://docs.telerik.com/blazor-ui/components/pdfviewer/overview) for instructions.

## Example

```csharp
<TelerikPdfViewer Data="@PdfSource">
    <PdfViewerToolBar>
        <PdfViewerToolBarOpenTool />
        <!-- all other buttons here -->
		<PdfViewerToolBarSeparator />
		
		<PdfViewerToolBarCustomTool>
            <TelerikButton OnClick="@OnSignPdfClick">SIGN</TelerikButton>
        </PdfViewerToolBarCustomTool>
    </PdfViewerToolBar>
</TelerikPdfViewer>

> @code {

Reviewer 4: The tabbing on some lines looks off.

Reviewer 2: Handled

	
	private async Task OnPdfDownload(PdfViewerDownloadEventArgs args)
    {
        args.FileName = "My.pdf";
    }

        private async Task OnSignPdfClick()
    {
        var unsignedDocument = this.PdfSource;

        var signedDocument = SignDocument(this.PdfSource);

        this.PdfSource = signedDocument;
    }

	private byte[] SignDocument(byte[] unsignedDocumentBytes)
	{
        // **** PHASE 1 - Get certificate **** //
		
		X509Certificate2 certificate = null;

		// OPTION 1 - BRING YOUR OWN CERTIFICATE FILE
        // RadPdfProcessing enables you to sign and validate signature fields using standard signature encodings
        // adbe.x509.rsa_sha1 (PKCS #1)
        // adbe.pkcs7.sha1 (PKCS #7)
        // adbe.pkcs7.detached (PKCS #7 Detached)

		//certificate = new System.Security.Cryptography.X509Certificates.X509Certificate2(certificateFilePath, certificateFilePassword);

		// OPTION 2 - USE AN EXISTING CERTIFICATE
		var x509Store = new X509Store("MY", StoreLocation.CurrentUser);
		x509Store.Open(OpenFlags.ReadOnly | OpenFlags.OpenExistingOnly);
		var validCerts = x509Store.Certificates.Find(X509FindType.FindByTimeValid, DateTime.Now, false);
		

> 		// IMPORTANT: This example is just taking the very first valid cert. In a real app, you will selected the cert you want to sign the document with

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
		// IMPORTANT: This example is taking the very first valid certificate. In a real app, you need to select the certificate you want to sign the document with.
```

Reviewer 2: Handled, 

Except the "need to" part. The developer can/must select whatever certificate it is from the Store that they use. In most cases the first certificate will be the SSL one, and you don't want that one for the PDF document.

		certificate = validCerts.FirstOrDefault();

        // **** PHASE 2 - Add certificate to SignatureField and use certificate **** //

        // The name of the signature must be unique.
        var signatureName = "John Doe";

        // The Signature object is added to a signature field, so we can add a visualization to it.
		var signatureField = new SignatureField(signatureName);
		signatureField.Signature = new Telerik.Windows.Documents.Fixed.Model.DigitalSignatures.Signature(certificate);

>         // close the local cert store now that we're done

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        // Close the local cert store now that you're done.
```

Reviewer 2: Handled

        x509Store.Close();

        // **** PHASE 3 - IMPORT DOCUMENT and insert signature field **** //

        var document = new PdfFormatProvider().Import(unsignedDocumentBytes);

>         // For the sake of this demo, we are adding a new page and adding a new signature field there, if your document already has a signature field, you can search for it instead

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        // This demo adds a new page and a new signature field there. If your document already has a signature field, you can search for it instead.
```

Reviewer 2: Handled

        RadFixedPage page = document.Pages.AddPage();

        // This is the Form XObject element that represents the contents of the signature field.
        var form = new Telerik.Windows.Documents.Fixed.Model.Objects.Form
        {
            FormSource = new FormSource { Size = new Size(220, 220) }
        };

>         // We will use the editor to fill the Form XObject.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        // The demo uses the editor to fill the Form XObject.
```

Reviewer 2: Handled

        var formEditor = new FixedContentEditor(form.FormSource);
        form.Position.Translate(10, 10);
        formEditor.DrawCircle(new Point(50, 50), 20);
        formEditor.DrawText(signatureName);

		// The widget contains the Form XObject and defines the appearance of the signature field.
		var widget = signatureField.Widgets.AddWidget();
		widget.Rect = new Rect(200, 600, 100, 100);
		widget.Border = new AnnotationBorder(10, AnnotationBorderStyle.Solid, null);
		widget.Content.NormalContentSource = form.FormSource;
		widget.RecalculateContent();

>         // Finally add the SignatureWidget to the page's annotations

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        // Finally add the SignatureWidget to the page's annotations.
```

Reviewer 2: Handled

		page.Annotations.Add(widget);

		var editor = new FixedContentEditor(page);
		editor.Position.Translate(200, 400);
		editor.DrawForm(form.FormSource);
		document.AcroForm.FormFields.Add(signatureField);
		widget.RecalculateContent();
		widget.AppearanceCharacteristics.Background = new Telerik.Windows.Documents.Fixed.Model.ColorSpaces.RgbColor(255, 0, 0);

        // **** PHASE 4 - EXPORT DOCUMENT **** //
        byte[] signedDocBytes = new PdfFormatProvider().Export(document);

        return signedDocBytes;
    }
}
```

## Notes

> - The Telerik Blazor PdfViewer does not currently support digital signature management in the UI.

Reviewer 4: This repeats similar content above. Since it's the reason to create a KB, I guess the statement is unnecessary here.

Reviewer 2: Handled

> - You can use Telerik PdfProcessing to digitally sign the PDF on the server-side.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- You can use Telerik PdfProcessing to digitally sign the PDF on the server side.
```

Reviewer 2: Handled

- The web application cannot access the user's guest operating system's X509 Certificate Store due to security restrictions in modern web browsers. Your application will only have access to X509 certificates installed on the server side. 

## See Also

- [PdfViewer - Overview](https://docs.telerik.com/blazor-ui/components/pdfviewer/overview)

> - [Document Processing Digital Signature documentation](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/document-processing/libraries/radpdfprocessing/features/security/digital-signatures)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Document Processing Digital Signature Documentation](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/document-processing/libraries/radpdfprocessing/features/digital-signature)
```

Reviewer 2: Handled

> - [Document Processing Digital Signature documentation](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/document-processing/libraries/radpdfprocessing/features/security/digital-signatures)

Reviewer 3: Double-check the link - it's a 404 for me. https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/document-processing/libraries/radpdfprocessing/features/digital-signature seems to be the correct link.

Reviewer 2: You're correct, it is in the Features section of the documentation. I'm not sure  where this one came from, could be hallucination, or that it is a last minute copy/paste mistake on my part.
